Our text for today deals with the quality of meekness.
Interestingly, one watched our article stated that meekness is actually a difficult quality
to cultivate. Difficult was certainly not impossible.
We can say this because just think of the number of scriptures
that mention the quality of meekness as being essential for salvation.
For example, Psalm 37 11, the meek will possess the earth.
Psalm 76 9, God will save all the meek of the earth.
Psalm 149 verse 4, Jehovah adorns the meek with salvation.
And then our text comments mentioned Zephaniah chapter 2 verse 3.
I invite you to take out your Bibles. Let's read that from God's words.
Verse 3 says, Seek Jehovah, all you meek ones of the earth,
who observe his righteous decrees, seek righteousness, seek meekness,
probably you will be concealed on the day of Jehovah's anger.
So all these scriptures show the connection between meekness and our salvation.
So let's take a moment then and examine how this quality relates to each of us.
The inside book defines meekness as a mildness of temper without haughtiness or vanity.
It is the mental disposition that enables one to endure injury with patience
and without irritation, resentment, or vindictive retaliation.
And as was mentioned earlier, how well this is illustrated in the Bible example of Moses.
Let's go back to the Bible this time to Numbers chapter 12.
We'll read a particular account and see how the Bible describes the man Moses.
Numbers chapter 12 verse 1 says, Now Miriam and Aaron began to speak against Moses
because of the Cushite wife he had taken married, for he had taken a Cushite wife.
They were saying, Is it only by Moses that Jehovah has spoken?
Has he not also spoken through us?
And Jehovah was listening.
Now the man Moses was by far the meekest of all the men on the face of the earth.
What we learned some interesting things in these verses to help establish
why Moses is described as the meekest of all the men on the face of the earth.
Notice in verse 1, Miriam and Aaron, Moses older brother and sister,
it says they began to speak against Moses.
They're speaking against him meant they were likely spreading their complaints about Moses
throughout the Israelite camp.
Miriam had a measure of influence in the camp.
She was a prophetess.
The Bible says she led the woman and singing and dancing when Jehovah defeated Pharaoh
in the Egyptians at the Red Sea.
So now that Moses' wife, Zapura, was going to rejoin them in the wilderness,
is it possible that Miriam may have feared that she would no longer be the leading lady in the camp?
Perhaps she felt that she would lose some of her prominence to Moses' wife, a non-Israelite at that.
Now all those apura was not an Israelite.
When we look at Exodus chapter 4, it shows that she demonstrated her willingness to adhere to God's laws.
So the root of Miriam's complaints and murmuring had nothing to do with true worship or the protection of God's people.
Instead, the root cause appears to be jealousy, an improper desire for authority and recognition.
We, along with our brother Aaron, use this as an excuse to murmur against Moses.
But if we look back in this account, how is the meekness of Moses made apparent?
Well, despite the resentment and murmuring on the part of Miriam and Aaron,
Moses patiently and quietly endured the abuse.
And if we look in verse 2, Moses did not have to defend himself because Jehovah was listening.
And he took action.
If you look in verses 6 through 8, Jehovah rebukes Miriam and Aaron.
And Miriam, evidently as the apparent instigator, is stricken with leprosy.
And when this happens, if you look in verses 11 and 12, how interesting,
Aaron asked Moses to intercede in her behalf.
Now for just a moment, let's just put ourselves in Moses' sandals.
Could we blame Moses if he were upset?
Here it is, his older siblings of disrespected Jehovah.
They've disrespected Moses as God's representative.
And now they're talking about Moses' wife, even when there was no just cause to do so.
So, could Miriam or could Moses have now felt about Miriam?
You know what? You had this coming to you.
You brought this upon yourself.
You are getting exactly what you deserve.
Well, even though Moses could have been justified.
When he was given the opportunity, notice what he does in verse 13.
He begins to cry out to Jehovah saying,
Oh, God, please heal her, please.
What a beautiful example of meekness displayed by Moses.
Now, how can his example benefit us?
Well, think about this.
When is the next time you and I might need to show meekness?
Could it be later today?
If we find that our work is being delayed by someone else or another department?
Could it be at our meeting this week if we receive counsel on a meeting part?
Could it be if we find that we've lost or that we've been passed over for a privilege of service?
You see, due to our imperfect state, any number of circumstances could arise
where we might need to look back when Moses' example of displaying meekness.
Now, for just a moment, let's go back to Zephaniah chapter 2, verse 3.
If you notice in verse 3, we are told to seek meekness.
That means that none of us are born with this quality,
so we have to seek it by asking, by searching, by praying for Jehovah's help to exercise restraint
and represent him properly, even under difficult circumstances.
Perhaps we've had the experience in the ministry where we've been ridiculed
or we've encountered unreasonable individuals who state all sorts of misconceptions about Jehovah's Witnesses.
And we've heard them. We don't believe in Jesus. We break up families.
We don't believe in helping the community.
And maybe when we hear them, it may bother us.
Frankly, it may even upset us.
To the point where we just feel we need to give a reply.
We must defend ourselves. We have to get the last word in in order to set the household
to straight on our beliefs.
But might that be the very time to seek meekness, to pray to Jehovah to exercise restraint?
Or perhaps on a more personal level.
It may be that we experience injustice.
Perhaps we have a misunderstanding with a member of our family here
and brother and sister in the congregation.
And whatever the issue is, we may have a legitimate complaint.
But isn't it true if we're not careful?
If we don't seek meekness.
If we don't seek to resolve the matter in a spirit of meekness,
well, wouldn't you agree that voicing our legitimate complaint could very easily cross the line into murmuring?
And we know how Jehovah feels about that.
So certainly, we would never want to do anything to disappoint them.
Moses was meek, the meekest man who ever lived.
But even he reached a point on one occasion where he did not show meekness and exercise restraint.
And he suffered the consequences.
So if you and I are to continue to draw close to God and remain acceptable to him,
we must strive to uproot any traces of pride, jealousy, ambition, or vindictiveness that we may see in ourselves.
Yes, Jehovah loves those who are meek.
Those who are meek will inherit salvation.
So may each of us continue to seek this quality by asking, praying,
and then cultivating a submissive attitude that will allow us to be among the meek who will inherit the earth.